---
layout: post
title: Monday
---

After spending the last hour rejiggering the intent of this blog and adding an ASCII cat--for literally no reason--I think I'm ready to write.

In the [last post]({% post_url 2025-02-11-Tuesday %}) I hinted that there was a point to all my rambling. That point was that I'm busy. I'm a single dad. I have two kids. I own a home. I usually have a full time job.

At my last job, I started using ChatGPT & Copilot on a daily basis. I worked at a startup which first tried to disrupt B2B dropshipping and then pivoted to trying to disrupt reality by creating software that didn't exist yet. Kudos to them that they weren't just another "but _with AI_" company; they are truly focusing on software years ahead of its time.

Having pretty much exclusively worked for startups all my life, AI initially felt like a key to unlocking truly other-worldly programming velocity. For me, my personal velocity means _I get my dopamines_, so the faster I move, the more spiked sugar drink my internal rat gets. I've worked like this for far too long.

When Copilot launched, I was actually surprised at how well it performed. I definitely felt like this engineer had been given the much-touted "superpowers" or was about to any day now, depending on the task. But that may have been its novelty. I took a break from it for about six months, and when I picked it back up while working on [Ampwall](https://ampwall.com), I felt like I had to struggle to get it to behave. But that may have been after six months of hardcore, behind-the-scenes, cost-saving Microsoft optimization.

Here's the point: When I first started using Copilot in a React environment, the autocomplete would nail most of what I wanted to do. At Ampwall, in a Next.js environment, it didn't help as much. Now at my new job where I'm learning Shopify theme development, it's usually just as confused as I am.

And I feel a little betrayed!

The selfish (or human?) part of me wanted to get my work done extra fast so I could spend more time with my kids, get the dishes clean, or summit Mount Laundry. The staff engineer part of me wanted to crank out mindless features while spending actual brainpower thinking about how to teach others through sane architecture and consistent code.

But this betrayal, this disappointment, has turned into something much darker and dangerous for me. I definitely notice that I want the machine to do my job for me more often than not. What used to be an opportunity for learning has turned into a feeling of "gosh darn it, why doesn't this idiot box thing work?" And in the span of just about a year! It's a really gross feeling and an embarrassing one to share, I'm realizing.

I know engineers--truly brilliant and prolific engineers--who build platforms on programming languages they've never used just by asking ChatGPT how, over and over again, trying the code, watching it fail, asking it why it failed, and trying the new code it gives you, ad infinitum. I do this too, and I literally learn nothing from the experience other than with enough determination, I can chat with an LLM long enough to get a thing to seem to work.

There's no fulfillment in this practice, but there is still the same dopamine hit. When I get Copilot to one-shot something these days, I feel like a bastard God. It's like there's another, larger, more mangey and vile rat that has moved into my brain who will fight for that sweet brain juice much more violently than the other.

I think I'm starting to realize this more because Copilot is failing me in my current role, which is forcing me to learn. Shopify is a rapidly changing platform and LLMs struggle to keep up. Hell, even searching for videos about how to do anything on Shopify is a total nightmare. So I've been raw-dogging documentation and trying and failing at a lot of things but learning as I go. What a concept for a software engineer, eh?

So, in summary, I don't really know what's happening anymore. Copilot once seemed great and helpful and, yes, I still use it, but my lord does it make me dumb and lazy as hell, and that, objectively speaking, seems like a net negative. On the other hand, have you had it write boilerplate for your test suite before? My god in heaven... they sure make it hard to quit.
