---
layout: post
title: Monday
---

Sorry for the break, David, but I did end up going [a little crazy]({% post_url 2025-01-25-Saturday %}). I followed the whole self-scripting thing a bit too deeply, got frustrated, and took a two-week mental break. Well, kind of. I still made some pretty good progress on [Journai](https://github.com/meowsus/journai). Now I can write posts and have Tarot readings assigned to them. That's progress. I haven't been active with [Ampwall](https://ampwall.com) since signing that month-to-month contract offer. I've been focusing on myself.

To that end, I have afforded myself some much-needed time to reflect and absolve some of my more brutish and self-abusing behaviors. Yes, I waited until the last minute to do so, but the process was cathartic and very much needed. In short, I feel that I have some apologies to write.

But this post is supposed to be about my first day back working for a job that will pay me. For at least one month's time, I will be gainfully employed, and I am hoping that it will be glorious. So far, I approach this position without fear, which is unique for me since most new jobs scare the bejesus out of me. That probably has something to do with the fact that I've worked with six of the employees before, not to mention the repetition of how much they actually want to work with me again. Though I still feel like I can do much wrong, I am allowing myself to be ineffective until I'm able to learn more about the company and how it works before just diving in like some n00b dev trying to take over the world... It's hard, though. I definitely fought the urge to jump in on a breadcrumb issue ticket.

Tickets, man. And time tracking. This is a service job. I wear all black every day, so it fits. People mistake me for the waiter. I like being the fake waiter. I especially like helping people. I like to be in this type of service industry. But fucking time tracking. A necessary evil, for sure. It'll take some getting used to.

I am pleased to say that I had the foresight to immediately start a work journal. This invaluable tome will help me immensely as I get on my feet. I am sure that I will grow out of it, but hopefully not, because having a daily work journal is an exceptionally killer way to keep track of stuff. It's in Notion, and I'm just using the basic [Daily Journal](https://www.notion.com/templates/notion-simple-journal) template. Actually, its headings aren't all that bad, though I did add "Questions" to the list.

So today I learned about my new company. Nothing stood out to me as notable, which means I'm very much in alignment with the way they think about doing business. I haven't gotten too into the specifics of how they expect things to be handled at the engineering level yet, but knowing these fine folks, it will be very close to the way I already operate. We did all come up with this stuff together as a team over a decade ago.
