---
layout: post
title: Sunday
subtitle: should knowledge workers be expected to work a 9-5?
---

I touched a bit on this on [the 7th]({% post_url 2025-02-07-Friday %}) but it was back in the forefront of my mind after a six-day work week. I did this to make sure I had 40 hours on my time sheet. One of the conditions for me accepting my current contract was that they were able to give me 40 hours of things to do per week. Would I die if I worked less? No. Has it been 7 months since I've been paid? Yes. Daddy wants that skrilla.

On [the 11th]({% post_url 2025-02-11-Tuesday %}) I also talked about how I need the stars to align _just right_ to even allow me to have an eight-hour chunk of time in which I can work. This week started off with President's Day, a day I can't even believe was observed this year. I guess everyone needed a break. Anyway, the kids were home and I could only manage to work four hours that day. On Tuesday I found it quite difficult to focus, likely because it was virtually the first time in a week that I was alone. The kids had actually been out of school since the Tuesday prior - first with lice, then with three snow days in a row.

So this Tuesday got me thinking: can knowledge workers be expected to work a straight 9-5? I guess they can be _expected_ to, but is that the right thing to expect from them?

Now I'm a contractor, remember, which isn't something I've done for over 15 years. My contract is only really useful to the company if the work I'm doing is billable. When employed full-time, my focus is on responsibility, team needs and my own personal drive to get things done. This week on Thursday I cleared out all of the work I was responsible to do for the current sprint and had that feeling of accomplishment. That feeling was immediately replaced by one of "oh fuck oh fuck oh fuck what am I going to do on Friday?"

So I found something in the backlog and picked it up. No big woop. But it was hard to get started. I mean, I had already finished my work for the week. Picking up this other ticket was just bonus work. Typically when I found myself in that position previously, I'd focus on team impact tasks. The thought process is "okay, I've accomplished what I set out to do this week and early, so I'm going to pick up some tasks that have been nagging at me recently." This is typically in the form of developer experience work, tooling or bore-core infrastructure changes that can't be scripted away easily. But I did billable work on Friday.

Then Saturday rolled around and I was six hours short on my time sheet due to 'merica and a therapist appointment on Wednesday. I actually didn't have any billable work lined up since I cleared what I could on Friday, so I focused on some base theme upgrades I discussed with our platform czar earlier in the week. I felt guilty and a little afraid this whole time to be honest because I wasn't honoring the ABB rule of client work. That's "always be billing" to those who haven't worked in this capacity before.

So reflecting on the week, which was full of cosmic misalignment and mental exhaustion, I was reminded that software engineering to me is akin to making art. Heck, it scratches the same itch for me and has for years. When I'm writing code all the time I even forget that I love to doodle. It's a creative process and I enjoy being creative regardless of the medium it seems. Then I started to think about my kids' mom and all the problems she has with the animators at her job. She works at a world-renowned animation studio and is always referring to her animators as "precious little snowflakes" or something along those lines.

The gist is that sometimes the animators call out sick or take days off because they _can't even..._ Everyone knows this about them - that they're always making up excuses as to why they can't work five days a week. Still, they are paid an ungodly amount of money because well, they're the talent; without them there would be no company.

As an artist myself, I couldn't even imagine being expected to make art forty hours a week without exception. I feel for these people. Like, I never wanted to be in a successful band because then it would become my job. I have never tried to sell my art despite being convinced that I should for a brief period during COVID lock-down because I don't want to work so closely with that which brings me so much enjoyment. I feel like once your financial security is tied so tightly to something that brings you joy it can suck the joy right out of the act. I suppose this is why I don't often work on personal projects. I've accepted that I write code for money. I try to deny its artistic value in my life.

Still, for me, the process isn't that different from creating a drawing or writing a song. It's creative, collaborative and iterative. I feel the same satisfaction when things are coming together and the same disappointment when I can't seem to get it together. I throw away attempts that aren't coming together in the right way. I favor intuition above knowledge to hone my skills. I also enjoy working on the user-facing side of the stack so yeah, there's a Venn diagram being established.

Knowledge work requires the brain. If I conflate this with art it's perhaps worse. If a company requires me to grind eight hours a day then I feel that it's reasonable to request that all my work is lined up for me each day - i.e., I shouldn't have to use my brain very much. I'm enjoying this to some extent as a contractor. My manager/fellow IC knows what needs to be done and he asks me to do it for him. I do it. Yey, everyone makes money. But that's not exactly knowledge work by definition.

> Knowledge workers are workers whose main capital is knowledge. Examples include ICT professionals, physicians, pharmacists, architects, engineers, scientists, design thinkers, public accountants, lawyers, editors and academics whose job is to "think for a living".

I'm working in a relatively structured contract capacity so I feel comfortable omitting myself from the knowledge worker label for now, but that won't always be the case. Take Saturday for example. Those six hours were spent fixing things that I uncovered throughout the week of working with our platform and in that short amount of time, we'll have more stability and flexibility in our future builds. I love that shit, dawg. Making the future a better place, one hour at a time. And seriously, the improvements are easy to implement. It's just very much against the ABB mentality.

So what is my point? Why do I feel like I need a point?

My point is that I feel for the animators who can't come into work every day. At my past job I was expected to work "at least six hours a day" for my salary but that was just on paper. My company expected me as a knowledge worker to get my shit done and identify shit that needed to be done after my immediate shit was done. Shit. It felt like an evolved way of existing. I can't even express to you how much I accomplished in the 2.5 years I worked there. My personal pace was unmatched in comparison to the other jobs I've had. Receiving trust in exchange for autonomy was a novel concept to me and from what I can tell, a novel concept in this world in general. I left that company with their frontend singing, all because I was trusted to do so.

But could I do it eight hours a day every day? Fuck no. It isn't like working at Target, ringing customers up or stocking shelves. It's thinking critically about how other people work and anticipating their next moves. It's gathering feedback on things you may not have even implemented yet. It's a chess game. I'm sure grandmasters literally can't play chess forty hours a week either.

But I'm taking this new ABB-centric role as a new challenge. What I can do eight hours a day is annihilate clearly defined tickets. It's like ringing up customers or stocking shelves. Move button here. Add lightbox there. Implement pagination for the ten thousandth time. It's ticket work. I can grind through that shit easily. The fun problem to solve here is how I can stay further ahead of my productivity to ensure that there's something else to work on tomorrow. Being heads down will get my work done, but when my head's up there might not be something to work on.
