---
layout: post
title: Tuesday
---

Now that I fill my days with billable hours, I am becoming acutely aware of just how much time I wasted over the last six months. Moreover, I'm becoming acutely aware that _I work all the time_.

Take yesterday, for example. It was one of those Mondays when I didn't have the kids in the morning. On these types of Mondays, I've told myself it's best to wake up at six in the morning, even though I don't start work until nine. I ended up sleeping in until seven (Go Birds!), made coffee, and wrote in my journal. By eight, I was bored and a little excited to dig into my workday, so I got started "early."

I worked until four but felt very distracted by all the things I needed to do around the house. Each hour, I’d leave my room (I have a 2,400 sqft house—why do I work in my room?) and meander around, staring at the mess left over from last week: dishes in the sink, a gritty kitchen floor, the mountain of kids' trash by the front door. I'd look at all of it, estimate how much time it would take to fix the problem, determine that it would take more time than I could afford (literally, I'm paid by the hour), and abandon all hope that it could be accomplished. This happened over and over again.

At four, and totally unbeknownst to my children, I played pinball at a bar across the street from their school. I do this nearly every day. Sure, I should pick them up as early as possible because their aftercare is apparently their seventh circle of hell, but I don’t. Why? Well, we’re getting to that.

Now, I’m not sure if I’m an asshole (probably), but I’ve begun thinking about work in terms of the time I give away to others. This includes loved ones because, frankly, it’s still work. That whole _labor of love_ thing. Labor is still work. I’m sure you get it, or maybe you think I’m probably an asshole.

So, on a day (like today) that I _do_ wake up with my kids, I start my day at six and do the following:

1. ☠ 0.5 hours making and pounding coffee so fast that I can barely taste it.
2. 0.75 hours trying to wake up my eleven-year-old repeatedly while simultaneously making breakfast and lunch for two kids.
3. 0.25–0.5 hours begging two kids to stop playing Minecraft, get their socks on, and get into the car.
4. 0.25–0.33 hours driving to school, with or without constant bickering from the back seat.
5. 0.08 hours trying to convince my son to get out of the car, not hit his sister with the door while she crawls out his side (for safety reasons), and get into the building because they’re always 0.17 hours late (fucking Minecraft).
6. 0.25 hours driving home from school (because there's less school traffic).
7. ☠ 0.25–0.5 hours trying to convince myself to journal despite knowing that I need around 0.75 hours to really get into it before not actually journaling.
8. 2 hours being confused about what I should be working on, how I should be doing it, and actually kind of getting it done.
9. 0.5 hours eating a burrito (single dad life) and reading internal documentation or watching some YouTube video about how the hell Shopify works, so I can bill that shit.
10. 2.5 hours doing more of that work thing.
11. ☠ 0.25–0.5 hours trying to earnestly fight "the itis" that I’ve been failing to fight for the last 1.5 hours by taking a break and watching the world burn via Google News.
12. Like 2.5 hours more work or whatever.
13. 0.25 hours driving back to school.
14. † 0.5–0.75 hours drinking beer and absolutely slaying Godzilla Premium.
15. 0.03 hours actually driving to the kids’ school.
16. 0.08–0.17 hours convincing my kids to leave aftercare, a place they repeatedly tell me they'd rather be skinned alive than go to even one more day.
17. 0.25 hours driving home.
18. 1.5 hours cleaning dishes, making 1-3 dinners, breaking up near-constant living room fights remotely from the kitchen while I have “chicken fingers” or something about to catch fire on the stove.
19. 0.25 hours convincing my son that, no matter what his mother lets him do at her house, he absolutely needs to brush his teeth before bed _every damn night_.
20. 1–1.5 hours reading to or being read to by my son.
21. 0.008 hours patting my tweenager on the head and hoping I don’t get bitten.
22. † 1–1.5 hours watching _Curb Your Enthusiasm_ for the seventeenth time before falling asleep, likely on the couch.

> † = "me time"  
> ☠ = absolutely unenjoyable "me time"

Now, you can go straight to hell if you think I’m counting up all those idiotic numbers I wrote above, but suffice it to say that on any given day, I have virtually no time to myself. My life works in two-week cycles because the kids' mom and I do the _2-2-5_ custody split. It’s counted in nights spent at a given parent’s house and cycles every two weeks. I’m awake a fixed amount of time each day, from six AM to ten-thirty PM, so I can pretty easily calculate time that could technically be used as “me time”:

| Day       | AM Kids | PM Kids | "Me Time" Chunks Total |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | ---------------------- |
| Monday    | no      | yes     | 5 hours                |
| Tuesday   | yes     | yes     | 2.5 hours              |
| Wednesday | yes     | no      | 4.5 hours              |
| Thursday  | no      | no      | 7 hours                |
| Friday    | no      | yes     | 5 hours                |
| Saturday  | yes     | yes     | ~3 hours               |
| Sunday    | yes     | yes     | ~3 hours               |
| Monday    | yes     | yes     | 2.5 hours              |
| Tuesday   | yes     | yes     | 2.5 hours              |
| Wednesday | yes     | no      | 4.5 hours              |
| Thursday  | no      | no      | 7 hours                |
| Friday    | no      | no      | 7 hours                |
| Saturday  | no      | no      | 16.5 hours             |
| Sunday    | no      | no      | 16.5 hours             |

I bet you're really tired of hearing the word "hours" in your brain at this point.

Speaking of points, what’s mine? I’m not sure. I guess I just wanted to see this all listed out before me. I guess the sadist in me also wanted to torture David with it.

I had a larger point I wanted to make, but maybe I’ll save that for tomorrow when my “me time” should increase by 55.56%.

Oh wait. Nope. The big kid has lice again. That ought to throw a wrench in the works.
