---
layout: post
title: Saturday
subtitle: death and taxes
---

It's been said that you can only count on two things in this life: death and taxes. Thankfully, today I will be focusing on the latter.

I'm contracting for an agency, as David is well aware. Two days ago I was going to write a very depressing, inflammatory post about how it was going. Yesterday I solicited feedback from my peers. It turns out I'm doing well. The news of this melted away a lot of the resentment I was feeling and reminded me that _The Void_ is a bitchmother from hell and is always subtly trying to pull me in, no matter how far I think I am from it.

Anyway, I'm contracting. This means that I have to pay quarterly taxes. I set aside this morning to huck many thousands of dollars at the bank accounts of the federal and state governments. Exactly how many thousands of dollars, you ask? Well, I don't have any idea.

Last year, my tax bill was about 42% of my gross pay. I'm not making that up. This year I'm making less money, so you'll be good God damned if you think I'm going to pay estimates based on 2024. I also think it's stupid to pay estimates based on what you _think_ you _might_ make over the course of the year. I guess I'm probably too analytical for my own good, but if I'm paying quarterly taxes for the months of April and May, I'm going to pay the correct amount based on my actual gross earnings.

My first invoice was sent at the end of February and wasn't paid until March 15th or so, due to many failures on the part of Canadian banking system. I didn't pay estimates for Q1, and I wasn't planning to. I want to sock that shit away because I'm still so very skittish about losing my job. But each time I receive an invoice I chop off 40% of it and throw it in a saving account separate from my normal savings account. I really only have the intention of paying 30% or less of my gross income, again, because I'd rather have some emergency money on hand, just in case. This is just what I'm telling myself before calculating any damn thing.

This morning I started searching for quarterly tax calculators and was surprised to find that no official calculators exist. They have tax _witholding_ calculators. They have 1040-ES and OR-ESTIMATE forms, but I don't have a printer. Hell, I don't even have a computer with a program that allows me to edit PDFs. That's when I had an idea--a stupid idea, but an idea nonetheless.

## What if I used AI to do my taxes?

I told you that it was a stupid idea. Often LLMs choke on simple math. This math is going to be less than simple, but I figure so long as the government is getting **something** I won't be penalized too heavily at the end of the year. Right? _Right?!_ Anyway, this is my personal compromise, since about a month ago I decided never to pay taxes again and I'm still trying to walk back from that decision. I'm trying here, ok?

Since I don't pay for any LLM directly (because, let's be real, I don't even buy myself clothing or furniture) I need to use the Cursor subscription my company pays for. I'm going to use Claude 4.0 since it has the _brain_ icon next to it. My basic plan is to upload the federal estimates form, get the AI to ask me questions until the form is filled out, and give me the amount I need to give to the government. Then, I'll repeat the process for the state in a separate context.

First off, however, I've found that Cursor doesn't allow you to add PDFs to its chat context. Great.

## Let's convert it to Markdown, probably.

I'll use [marker](https://github.com/datalab-to/marker) to handle the conversion, but it requires [pytorch](https://pytorch.org/) and I'll need the CPU version since I'm not a l33t gamer boi. Porking around with the friendly little GUI on [this page](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/#supported-linux-distributions) reveals to me that the command I need to run is

```
pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
```

But that gives me the following

```
error: externally-managed-environment

× This environment is externally managed
╰─> To install Python packages system-wide, try apt install
    python3-xyz, where xyz is the package you are trying to
    install.

    If you wish to install a non-Debian-packaged Python package,
    create a virtual environment using python3 -m venv path/to/venv.
    Then use path/to/venv/bin/python and path/to/venv/bin/pip. Make
    sure you have python3-full installed.

    If you wish to install a non-Debian packaged Python application,
    it may be easiest to use pipx install xyz, which will manage a
    virtual environment for you. Make sure you have pipx installed.

    See /usr/share/doc/python3.12/README.venv for more information.

note: If you believe this is a mistake, please contact your Python installation or OS distribution provider. You can override this, at the risk of breaking your Python installation or OS, by passing --break-system-packages.
hint: See PEP 668 for the detailed specification.
```

Omfg I hate Python. Okay. Right. I need venv installed.

```
sudo apt install python3.12-venv
```

And now I should be able to do

```
python3 -m venv dumb_taxes
```

And _then_ I should be able to use the binaries in the `bin/` directory it creates:

```
dumb_taxes/bin/pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
```

Okay. Okay. We're getting somewhere.

Now we can [install marker](https://github.com/datalab-to/marker?tab=readme-ov-file#installation):

```
dumb_taxes/bin/pip3 install marker-pdf
```

Nice. Now I'll copy my PDF into the `dumb_taxes` directory, and try to run marker on it:

```
dumb_taxes/bin/marker_single ./f1040es.pdf
```

That took like 5 minutes. Without specifying an `--output-dir` the command drops the result into `dumb_taxes/lib/python3.12/site-packages/conversion_results/f1040es/`. `less`ing the `f1040es.md` file in that directory makes me feel confident about the conversion and glancing at a preview makes me feel like this worked at least well enough for this experiment.

An easy way to get Cursor to consume files is to create a "Doc" pointed at a Github Gist. So I created one [here](https://gist.github.com/meowsus/8908a123c99409a21f39bafae811cf98) and ran `@Docs > Add New Doc` in Cursor Chat, pointing it at the "raw" version of the file [here](https://gist.github.com/meowsus/8908a123c99409a21f39bafae811cf98/raw/655c70c5389a5e2252474c48592f2d4bf78ebddb/f1040es.md). Once that was done I repeated the process for my `OR-ESTIMATE 2025 Proposed Final.pdf` document (raw format [here](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/meowsus/38bcc7620b15339a73a3c1433aef0961/raw/7e531e4caef53a2e34b8bd08dca26ad71502a670/OR-ESTIMATE%25202025%2520Pending%2520Final.md)).

Now that everything is finished indexing I'll get to prompting. I'll start with

> I need help estimating my quarterly taxes for 2025. Here is a converted version of Form 1040-ES supplied by the IRS: @f1040es
>
> For context, my taxable income in 2024 was $X. I was laid off mid July 2024 and did not begin working again until February 2025 as a contractor. I was receiving $X per week in unemployment benefits until February 2025. I did not pay estimates in Q1 2025, but have saved 40% of every invoice payment I've collected so far this year. Here is the monthly breakdown of the amount of money I've collected from my company each month:
>
> - January 2025: $X (besides $X weekly unemployment)
> - February 2025: $X
> - March 2025: $X
> - April 2025: $X
> - May 2025: $X
> - June: 2025: $X
>
> My ultimate goal is to estimate my payments as accurately as possible to avoid any penalty as well as avoid any return.
>
> Please review the provided form and feel free to ask me one question at a time until you have enough information to provide me with an accurate Q2 estimated tax payment amount.

I'll snip here, and direct you to [the full conversation](https://gist.github.com/meowsus/b64bc73ae3391dca4bcda32889e88a20), if you happen to want to read the whole thing. But given a cursory glance at the math, everything seems to check out! I'll go with these numbers this year and curse Skynet in 2026 when I somehow have a $35k tax bill.
