---
layout: post
title: Knip spike
tags: [ampwall]
---

At [Ampwall](https://ampwall.com) we've decided to migrate from a regular `npm` project over to a `pnpm`-based monorepo. We decided to do this because our worker architecture relies too heavily on our underlying app architecture when, really, there's no good reason for this.

The proposal was relatively straightforward: break out our app into three separate packages. These would be `ampwall-app`, `ampwall-shared`, and `ampwall-workers` where "app" would depend on "shared" and "workers", "workers" would depend on "shared", and "shared" wouldn't depend on either of the other two. In practice, however, that was easier said than done.

After about 60 hours of obsessively brute-forcing my way though this migration I gave up. I work about 4 hours a day so this project lasted about three weeks, leading up to a two week break that I took at the end of last year. Normally, I wouldn't obsess over something for so long, but my normal indicators of spike-failure were all out of whack. First, I am not working full days, so after the first week I decided to keep pushing forward. Actually, after the first week I had the project set up in `pnpm`, just not in a workspace yet, so the initial results looked promising. But after that first week reality started to fray at the edges. There were so many interconnected dependencies that `ampwall-shared` started to become a dumping ground for any and all code that currently was or might possibly be shared. This was unideal, truly, but I was also trying to make the migration minimally burdensome on our engineering team, i.e. "these folders are _always_ 'shared'" over "should I move this function in this file into 'shared'?"

I'm traversing down a long and painful storyline so I'll stop here. Suffice it to say that the "Just Do It (tm)" mentality was an abject failure, however I did learn a lot. I wrote down the results of my failures in the ticket created for the work so that I'd have a touchstone when I, or hopefully our fearless leader, picked it up again. He didn't, so I did when I got back. In summary, this touchstone allowed me to break the work down into manageable chunks, which are too numerous and irrelevant to mention now. The one I'm focusing on currently is...

# Knip

[Knip](https://knip.dev/) de-clutters your codebase. We want this for [all the reasons](https://knip.dev/explanations/why-use-knip) but particularly for its ability to detect dead code, of which there is an unhealthy amount in our codebase. It's a zero-to-one project led by one guy working as hard as he could for the last year and a half. With this dead code out of the way we can ensure that the files we're going to get way fewer false indicators of dependencies when attempting to break apart our monorepo in the coming weeks.

After running the init command (`npm init @knip/config`) I'm allowed to run `npm run knip` which gives me a bunch of things to fix. True story: I love this type of mundane work, especially now that my focus time has been halved due to nixing childcare for my kids in attempts to slow the bleed from my bank account.

A lot of the output is actionable, but I immediately notice that `knip` doesn't know about a few things in our codebase. It's reporting that I can delete `panda.config.ts` and `pm2.config.js`, which I know would seriously compromise the project. We use [Panda](https://panda-css.com/) for CSS-in-JS styles and [PM2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/) for our workers. Looking at [knip's plugins page](https://knip.dev/explanations/plugins), I don't see either package listed.

Further down the list of things to clean up I see a lot of references to `src/spec/__generated__/fabbrica/index.js` under the "Unused exports" section. We depend on [Fabbrica](https://github.com/arkadiuszbachorski/fabbrica) quite extensively for mocking our Prisma objects. This is unfortunate, since the project is no longer maintained, but it's something I'll still need to account for.

Do I need to add configuration? Do I need to write custom plugins? Perusing the initial [configuration documentation](https://knip.dev/overview/configuration) I am becoming woefully aware that I need a much deeper understanding of how knip works before I an answer these questions.

## The spike

After a bit of reading (starting with [entry files](https://knip.dev/explanations/entry-files) and ending with [project configuration](https://knip.dev/guides/configuring-project-files)) I'm pretty sure I figured out our Fabbrica issue. I'll start there.

As a side note, I'm very much a "learn as you do" type of engineer. I will throw myself into a package and learn by breaking things. It's only after I have developed some muscle memory with a new package that I'll go back and solidify what I've learned with documentation.

Knip seems a bit less straightforward than most packages, likely due to its heavy reliance on community maintained plugins. So this time I'm reading as I'm working, which feels awkward to me.

### Handling Fabbrica

Fabbrica automatically generates types and its functions each time we run a database migration. Since these will always change and represent everything as defined in our Prisma schema we should be able to safely say that this folder shouldn't be considered part of our project.

Let's start with a slice of knip's default configuration, in a newly created `knip.json` file:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://unpkg.com/knip@5/schema.json",
  "project": ["**/*.{js,cjs,mjs,jsx,ts,cts,mts,tsx}!"]
}
```

Running `npm run knip` before and after adding this file seems to produce the same result, so we can safely say the configuration is working. The full `project` array from the default configuration is maintained because knip overrides and does not merge the values listed in the `knip.config` with the default.

Now we'll add our generated Fabbrica directory as negated in our project, run `npm run knip` again, and watch these offenses disappear:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://unpkg.com/knip@5/schema.json",
  "project": [
    "**/*.{js,cjs,mjs,jsx,ts,cts,mts,tsx}!",
    "!src/spec/__generated__/fabbrica/**/*"
  ]
}
```

Since I'm overriding the default configuration I want to be sure that I'm not screwing anything up while I'm experimenting with configuration. [I'll use ChatGPT to keep track of the output](https://chatgpt.com/share/678038ef-9168-8013-948b-02a46fa63b48). It seems to me like excluding the automatically generated fabbrica directory worked as expected without causing any other changes elsewhere in the analysis. _Aw yiss_.

Upon further reading, however, I've realized that this is likely a better use case for [ignore](https://knip.dev/guides/configuring-project-files#ignore-issues-in-specific-files). From the docs:

> Use `ignore` if a certain file contain unused exports that we want to ignore.

I'll try this configuration instead:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://unpkg.com/knip@5/schema.json",
  "ignore": ["src/spec/__generated__/fabbrica/**/*"]
}
```

Ugh. I hit my ChatGPT upload limit for the day... I'll switch over to `npm run knip -- --watch --reporters compact` instead for now. I see that it is the same output as before. Nice.

### Handling PM2

Likely the more straightforward of the two remaining issues is our PM2 configuration. Let's start by claiming that `pm2.config.js` is an entry file:

Going from what I have currently, plus the default entry file configuration:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://unpkg.com/knip@5/schema.json",
  "entry": [
    "{index,cli,main}.{js,cjs,mjs,jsx,ts,cts,mts,tsx}",
    "src/{index,cli,main}.{js,cjs,mjs,jsx,ts,cts,mts,tsx}"
  ],
  "ignore": ["src/spec/__generated__/fabbrica/**/*"]
}
```

... to the inclusion of `pm2.config.js`:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://unpkg.com/knip@5/schema.json",
  "entry": [
    "{index,cli,main}.{js,cjs,mjs,jsx,ts,cts,mts,tsx}",
    "src/{index,cli,main}.{js,cjs,mjs,jsx,ts,cts,mts,tsx}",
    "pm2.config.js"
  ],
  "ignore": ["src/spec/__generated__/fabbrica/**/*"]
}
```

... still reports `pm2.config.js` as an unused file. Damn it. It looks like I'll need to write some plugins for the remaining issues.

## Knip plugins

This is the part that I am afraid of. The only way to handle configuration files seems to be by creating plugins. This wouldn't normally get my dander up but, unfortunately, it seems like there is no way to prove that my plugin is working locally in development. This means that I need to jump through a few hoops to ensure the plugins I'm writing are working properly before potentially submitting them for review back to the base package.

I think a decent approach might be as follows:

1. fork knip
1. clone my fork of the repo and get it set up properly
1. use `npm link` to get the package running in my project ([ref](https://dev.to/one-beyond/different-approaches-to-testing-your-own-packages-locally-npm-link-4hoj))
1. use [knip's plugin generator](https://knip.dev/guides/writing-a-plugin#create-a-new-plugin) to generate a new plugin
1. write the plugin
1. test it in my project
1. ...
1. profit

There's just one inherent problem with this proposed solution: I'm not sure that my plugins will ever get merged. OOS is great until you have to get involved during a project with a set timeline, self-imposed or otherwise.

But, whatever, I'm here to learn! The only alternative I can think of is using something like [patch-package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/patch-package), but I'll cross that bridge if and when I come to it.

### Local setup

After forking and cloning, I need to make sure I'm running the same version locally as I am from npm. `npm ls knip` says `5.42.0` so that's the tag I'll work from.

```bash
git checkout 5.42.0
git checkout -b add/pm2-plugin
```

Next, I have to set up the project... but how? The readme lacks any kind of contribution documentation. They seem use bun, but I'm unsure as to which package manager I should be using. Judging by their `package.json` file's `workspaces` entry, I'll assume npm... but there's a lot of [bun](https://bun.sh/) stuff in here too. It seems like bun is actually a npm-compatible package manager, in addition to a slew of other things and now I'm noticing a `bun.lockb` file... Okay... Bun it is!

```bash
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
source ~/.zshrc
bun install
```

Ok. That seemed to have worked.

Judging by their `package.json`'s `scripts` entry I'm not seeing any build-related commands. I guess I'll just try linking it.

After doing a bit more research and being saddened by how overly complex `npm link` works, I decided to try the following in my project:

```bash
npm uninstall knip
npm install --save-dev ../../../src/knip/packages/knip
```

Now running `npm run knip` in my project gives me an error:

```bash
➜  ampwall git:(add/knip) ✗ npm run knip

> ampwall@0.1.0 knip
> knip

node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:255
    throw new ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND(
          ^

Error [ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND]: Cannot find module '/home/meowsus/Code/src/knip/packages/knip/dist/cli.js' imported from /home/meowsus/Code/src/knip/packages/knip/bin/knip.js
    at finalizeResolution (node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:255:11)
    at moduleResolve (node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:908:10)
    at defaultResolve (node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:1121:11)
    at ModuleLoader.defaultResolve (node:internal/modules/esm/loader:396:12)
    at ModuleLoader.resolve (node:internal/modules/esm/loader:365:25)
    at ModuleLoader.getModuleJob (node:internal/modules/esm/loader:240:38)
    at ModuleWrap.<anonymous> (node:internal/modules/esm/module_job:85:39)
    at link (node:internal/modules/esm/module_job:84:36) {
  code: 'ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND',
  url: 'file:///home/meowsus/Code/src/knip/packages/knip/dist/cli.js'
}
```

This isn't all bad, though. At least I know that the relative link is working. I just need to check this workspace package's `package.json` file to find the build command:

```bash
cd ~/Code/src/knip/packages/knip
bun run build
```

Bam. Now I have a `dist` folder at `~/Code/src/knip/packages/knip/dist`.

Running `npm run knip` now succeeds. Success!

### Generating the plugin boilerplate

Okay. Now let's try creating this plugin:

```bash
cd ~/Code/src/knip/packages/knip`
bun create-plugin --name pm2
bun run test/plugins/pm2.test.ts
```

That worked and a `git status -s` call shows:

```bash
 M schema.json
 M src/plugins/index.ts
 M src/schema/plugins.ts
 M src/types/PluginNames.ts
?? fixtures/plugins/pm2/
?? src/plugins/pm2/
?? test/plugins/pm2.test.ts
```

Digging into the boilerplate generated in `src/plugins/pm2/index.ts`, I see:

```ts
import type {
  IsPluginEnabled,
  Plugin,
  ResolveConfig,
} from "../../types/config.js";
import { toDeferResolve } from "../../util/input.js";
import { hasDependency } from "../../util/plugin.js";
import type { PluginConfig } from "./types.js";

// link to pm2 docs

const title = "pm2";

const enablers = ["pm2"];

const isEnabled: IsPluginEnabled = ({ dependencies }) =>
  hasDependency(dependencies, enablers);

const config: string[] = [];

const entry: string[] = [];

const production: string[] = [];

const resolveConfig: ResolveConfig<PluginConfig> = async (config) => {
  const inputs = config?.plugins ?? [];
  return [...inputs].map(toDeferResolve);
};

export default {
  title,
  enablers,
  isEnabled,
  config,
  entry,
  production,
  resolveConfig,
} satisfies Plugin;
```

So I'll need to adjust the `config` array. The docs look to recommend `ecosystem.config.js` as the pm2 config file name. Great! Ours is named `pm2.config.js`. Heck, I'll add both.

```ts
import type {
  IsPluginEnabled,
  Plugin,
  ResolveConfig,
} from "../../types/config.js";
import { toDeferResolve } from "../../util/input.js";
import { hasDependency } from "../../util/plugin.js";
import type { PluginConfig } from "./types.js";

// https://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/quick-start/

const title = "pm2";

const enablers = ["pm2"];

const isEnabled: IsPluginEnabled = ({ dependencies }) =>
  hasDependency(dependencies, enablers);

const config: string[] = ["{ecosystem,pm2}.config.js"];

const entry: string[] = [];

const production: string[] = [];

const resolveConfig: ResolveConfig<PluginConfig> = async (config) => {
  const inputs = config?.plugins ?? [];
  return [...inputs].map(toDeferResolve);
};

export default {
  title,
  enablers,
  isEnabled,
  config,
  entry,
  production,
  resolveConfig,
} satisfies Plugin;
```

Next we probably have to build again (`bun run build`) before testing to see if that configuration is getting picked up in the project. Aaaand it's not. Great.

Oh, I see why. Our `workers:prod` script calls `pm-runtime` but that's not listed as a dependency in the project. That's not good.

Searching the codebase shows that we just globally install `pm2` in our Dockerfile. No versioning or anything. We should be able to assume it's always grabbing the latest, then:

```Dockerfile
RUN npm install -g pm2
```

### A fun diversion: versioning pm2

Okay, so globally installing pm2 is unideal. Let's get it into our package. I'll start by deleting the aforementioned line out of the Dockerfile and running:

```bash
npm install pm2@latest pm2-runtime@latest
```

Now when we run `npm run knip` in our project, does `pm2.config.js` not show up in unused files? No. No it does not. Thank god.

One thing I just noticed is that `npm` seems to cache the relative link. Deleting `node_modules/` out of the project didn't even fix it. I think the easiest course here, after `npm install ../path/to/local/repo` is to `npm uninstall <package>` after use and reinstall the base package with `npm install <package>` manually.

### Back to the pm2 plugin

Okay, now that I know that it's working I'm pretty sure I can scale back the `config` bit of the pm2 plugin to just:

```ts
const config: string[] = ["ecosystem.config.js"];
```

... and override this in my project with:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://unpkg.com/knip@5/schema.json",
  "ignore": ["src/spec/__generated__/fabbrica/**/*"],
  "pm2": {
    "config": ["pm2.config.js"]
  }
}
```

... which works. This is good. My final knip plugin looks like this:

```ts
import type {
  IsPluginEnabled,
  Plugin,
  ResolveConfig,
} from "../../types/config.js";
import { toDeferResolve } from "../../util/input.js";
import { hasDependency } from "../../util/plugin.js";
import type { PluginConfig } from "./types.js";

// https://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/quick-start/

const title = "pm2";

const enablers = ["pm2", "pm2-runtime"];

const isEnabled: IsPluginEnabled = ({ dependencies }) =>
  hasDependency(dependencies, enablers);

const config: string[] = ["ecosystem.config.js"];

const entry: string[] = [];

const production: string[] = [];

const resolveConfig: ResolveConfig<PluginConfig> = async (config) => {
  const inputs = config?.plugins ?? [];
  return [...inputs].map(toDeferResolve);
};

export default {
  title,
  enablers,
  isEnabled,
  config,
  entry,
  production,
  resolveConfig,
} satisfies Plugin;
```

## And I'm calling it

My spike day is over. I've learned how to work with Knip plugins, which is a great start, but I'm feeling like it's overkill. I'm pretty sure that we can just define our config files as entry files in our knip config and be done.

I'd love to help contribute to this community, because it is a really snazzy project, however I can't shake the feeling that the likelihood of my code being accepted is low due to the intimate knowledge one needs to have with the underlying packages you're writing plugins for. I do not have a great internal knowledge of either pm2 or Panda, so this feels like it's going to lead to a rabbit-hole that I'd rather not involve myself in right now.

My final `knip.json` looks like this:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://unpkg.com/knip@5/schema.json",
  "ignore": ["src/spec/__generated__/fabbrica/**/*"],
  "entry": ["pm2.config.js", "panda.config.ts"]
}
```

I'm sure I'm introducing blind spots, but as I work through these offenses tomorrow I'll re-evaluate if one or both will require a plugin.
