---
layout: post
title: Thursday
---

I took the day off to clean today since I have some friends from Philadelphia staying with me over the weekend. I observed that my normal _omg I have to speed up my self-care routine_ feelings went totally out the window, and I was able to enjoy my journaling and exercise. I wrote a lot, actually.

My morning journaling routine was really the impetus of my [Journai](https://github.com/meowsus/journai) project that I recently shelved. This was a personal project that I tried to complete over my self-prescribed winter break. My goal was to replicate my process digitally. Here's my process:

1. I write about whatever is in the forefront of my mind.
2. I shuffle a tarot deck and draw three cards.
3. I write about the tarot reading as it pertains to the thoughts buzzing around my head that day.

It's not your typical journaling experience, but I have found that it helps considerably when I'm consistent. I use tarot for perspective. Sometimes it's super validating. Sometimes it makes near-zero sense. Those are the days I love the best because it makes me really stretch for a connection, i.e., I have to think far outside the box.

Over the days, I notice trends both in what I'm writing about, the tarot readings throughout the week, and the conclusions I'm coming to. The funny thing about tarot is that it sure illuminates a lot of synchronicities. I find this to be especially true when I'm reading psych books (currently I'm bouncing between [Cosmic Trigger I](https://www.abebooks.com/9780692513972/Cosmic-Trigger-Final-Secret-Illuminati-0692513973/plp) and [The Mountain Is You](https://www.abebooks.com/9781949759228/Mountain-Transforming-Self-Sabotage-Self-Mastery-Brianna-1949759229/plp)).

While I was working on the Journai project, I got to the part where the tarot came in and started to spiral. "This would be a good product on its own," I said to myself and, promptly, the idea was shelved. Presently, Journai can (a) accept user input in the form of a journal entry and (b) summarize it using [Mistral AI](https://mistral.ai/) running in Ollama.

The idea behind the summarization work came from my avoidance of reading my old journal entries. By creating summaries on the fly for each entry, my hope was that I might be able to collate a group of them and pepper an overview in at a regular cadence. This would hopefully give me pause and reflect on the things that were happening in my life without having to hear my whiny past self bitch and moan about whatever crap was on my mind each day. A "play me the hits" kind of idea but not in my own dumb voice in real-dumb-time. The groundwork for that is still sitting there, ready to go.

But I couldn't let go of the tarot work, conceptually speaking. I wanted to work on this in isolation, since it could exist in isolation, and start to see where I could thread the two concepts together. It's pretty simple: allow a user to read their own tarot cards _or_ have the LLM do it for you. Like, it _could_ do everything for you if you wanted, but the application would make no assumption that that is what you would want it to do by default.

This morning, I decided to work on it after receiving a pretty clear message around [what I was talking about yesterday]({% post_url 2025-01-15-Wednesday %}) with regards to the distraction of "fakework," as I call it. I truly feel that I need to be focusing on my portfolio, on spending every moment I have looking for work, and prioritizing my mental health over all else. Maybe The Mountain has been me, but got dang it, not for much longer.

_Quick shout-out to David, the only person reading this right now. You're great, and I'm both glad and sorry that you're marrying my cousin. Jk, jk, she's also great. Power-couple of the century._
